

This the model from the article:  
**A quantitative model for mRNA translation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.**   
You T, Coghill GM, Brown AJ. _Yeast._ 2010 Mar 19. epub ahead of print, PMID:
[20306461](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20306461) , doi:
[10.1002/yea.1770](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/yea.1770)  
**Abstract:**   
Messenger RNA (mRNA) translation is an essential step in eukaryotic gene
expression that contributes to the regulation of this process. We describe a
deterministic model based on ordinary differential equations that describe
mRNA translation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. This model, which was
parameterized using published data, was developed to examine the kinetic
behaviour of translation initiation factors in response to amino acid
availability. The model predicts that the abundance of the eIF1-eIF3-eIF5
complex increases under amino acid starvation conditions, suggesting a
possible auxiliary role for these factors in modulating translation initiation
in addition to the known mechanisms involving eIF2. Our analyses of the
robustness of the mRNA translation model suggest that individual cells within
a randomly generated population are sensitive to external perturbations (such
as changes in amino acid availability) through Gcn2 signalling. However, the
model predicts that individual cells exhibit robustness against internal
perturbations (such as changes in the abundance of translation initiation
factors and kinetic parameters). Gcn2 appears to enhance this robustness
within the system. These findings suggest a trade-off between the robustness
and performance of this biological network. The model also predicts that
individual cells exhibit considerable heterogeneity with respect to their
absolute translation rates, due to random internal perturbations. Therefore,
averaging the kinetic behaviour of cell populations probably obscures the
dynamic robustness of individual cells. This highlights the importance of
single-cell measurements for evaluating network properties. Copyright (c) 2010
John Wiley and Sons, Ltd.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models. It is copyright (c) 2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

